Here's how I trade the 6:00 p.m. market
open and the Asian session. If you've
been trading using candle patterns or
ICT or even something else, I want you
to try using these fair price as targets
in your back test and see how that helps
you. Fair price is the 6:00 p.m. open
whenever it reopens for the day. Just
because the futures were closed for an
hour, which means there's an hour for
them to be priced at a good price. If
you haven't seen my strategy video in
general, I recommend checking that out.
It's on my YouTube, but each session I
would trade one continuation and one
reversal.
So, I'm going to talk about how to do
continuation and reversal for 6:00 p.m.
and then continuation and reversal for
Asian session. This allows me to take
four extra trades per day. I'll go
through about 2 weeks' worth of trades
and show you how these fair prices were
treated. So, we're going to start on May
14th. We have the 6:00 p.m. open right
here. You can mark out the opening price
using the horizontal ray.
There is no gap on this day. So, if you
were to take a continuation, you would
just take it in the direction of the
opening candle.
After that, I would trade a reversion
back to the 6:00 p.m. price.
My usual entry criteria is off of a
break of structure.
Something like this.
I still believe that this red line,
which is marking the 6:00 p.m. open, is
a fair price.
There's lots of consolidation here and
then a move up, so I could take another
short position, probably here off the
next break of structure that I see, back
in the direction of the 6:00 p.m. open.
From there, Asian session opens at 8:00
p.m. Asian session opens fairly most of
the time unless it's very far away from
the 6:00 p.m. If then I'll trade back to
the 6:00 p.m. So, for the Asian session,
I'll take an opening continuation to the
6:00 p.m. or to a gap if it has not been
filled. In this case, there is no gap or
the gap has been filled and the Asian
open is already opening at the 6:00 p.m.
price, pretty much. So, I wouldn't take
any continuation trades for Asian
because it's opening at what I think is
a fair price. I would still do a
reversion to the Asian open. There's a
very large move up here and I would just
trade a reversion back to the Asian fair
price
off a break of structure. So, that's how
I get about four trades in for the
evening. Now, I'll just go over a bunch
more examples and you can do so as well.
Wednesday opens and the gap is filled.
There is no real opportunity for a
continuation trade short, but there is
one for long because it breaks this
structure to the upside and closes
significantly above. You could take
reversion back to this price here
entering off a break of structure. This
one would not have one, but I still
think it is a very strong trade to take.
So, we're done with continuation. We're
done with reversion. Now, Asian session
opens right here. The Asian session
opened very far away from the 6:00 p.m.
price. So, Asian continuation would be
in the direction of 6:00 p.m. price.
Just enter off the first break of
structure and you get a great trade for
29 points.
If you let it go for more,
unfortunately, you would have lost this
one. After getting stopped out, you
could look for another entry in the
Asian session just waiting for another
break of structure to the downside and
the first one that I see happens to be
right here.
Targeting the 6:00 p.m. open, which is
most likely still a fair price. Then,
you will hit 135 points or so. All
right. Now, we're back to Tuesday.
Market opens here at 6:00 p.m. You take
a nice continuation trade here.
Just waiting until the wicks are dying
down so you have confirmation that the
uptrend is correct.
After continuation trade, you can start
to look for a reversion off of a break
of structure.
Come back to the 6:00 p.m. price. So,
there's a continuation. There's the
reversion as always.
Now, Asian session opens pretty far
below the 6:00 p.m. price. So, Asian
continuation would be longs.
In terms of the entry,
this first candle is very, very large,
but it doesn't close above this
structure. So, I'm not too excited to
take that. I would probably wait until
somewhere within this move up where I'm
getting it significantly above previous
structure.
Even up here, but at this point you're
not getting too many points in your
favor. So,
I guess it's up to you where you enter
along this. Unfortunately, there's this
very large wick here, so might have
gotten stopped out, but it's just good
to see that Asian did continue back to
the 6:00 p.m. price as expected.
And then it moves farther up.
I'm usually done trading at that 9:30,
but if you're still trading, you could
try to look for some sort sort of short
from here back towards the Asian
session. Unfortunately, this was just a
very long biased evening. Monday session
opens at 6:00 p.m. right here. Very
large green candle.
You could look for some sort of
continuation as usual. And then for a
reversion, whenever you could take
profit on continuation or whenever you
see a break of structure, the first
break of structure occurs right here.
There's no structure being formed here
that is broken. Structure is forming
here and it's broken here.
You could just take a reversion back to
the 6:00 p.m. price.
The Asian session also opens right here
and you could take this continuation
down here back towards 6:00 p.m. price
if you weren't able to catch this for
any reason.
After this dump here, I would trade a
long reversal because this is sort of
the Asian continuation short. I would
take a long trade off of the first break
of structure that I see back to either
the 6:00 p.m. price or
pre-Asian price here.
If it drops off farther and you could
take one final trade, possibly another
long
back towards 6:00 p.m. price off of a
break of structure
which seems you're getting about here.
So, depending on your take profit stop
loss, maybe you win, maybe you don't.
You also have to be very careful of news
to see if news is causing moves like
this. News is pretty much the only thing
that impacts fair price. So, you have to
have Forex Factory open on one monitor
and be monitoring is this move fair or
not. Sunday, we do the same thing.
So, start by marking out the open and
then our continuation trade is slightly
biased to fill the gap, so I wouldn't be
too interested in continuation shorts
even though it looks like they did win.
I would just be taking longs off of
either of break of structure, which is
giving you 24 points, or this break of
structure, which is giving 46 points.
You can also send a very long trade in
to fill the entire gap
with lower risk
and target just the open with higher
risk.
After it fills the gap, I'm waiting for
it to come back to the 6:00 p.m. open
price.
Enter off of the first break of
structure you see. No structure is
broken here. There's the structure.
There's the break, and you're getting 25
points.
Next, Asian session opens right here.
Asian session opens at the It's pretty
much the exact same price that the 6:00
p.m. open was opened at, which means
this area right here between these two
lines is the most fair price ever. So,
this move up here, incredibly unfair.
You can enter short off of break of
structure here back to this price.
Unfortunately, this one loses, so you
just wait for the next break of the
structure.
There's structure here, but this does
not break it, so I would not validate
that and enter here. I would wait until
structure is confirmed to be broken,
which seems like right here of this
structure and this structure.
Or even right here of this structure.
You're not getting as many points, but
this is pretty much guaranteed to win. I
would look more at entering right here.
So, you're getting about 50 points in
your favor. So, really good 6:00 p.m.
session.
Treating the opening price as fair. On
Sunday, they have 48 hours pretty much
over the weekend to price in the open.
So, these 6:00 p.m. opens on Sundays are
usually a lot more fair than the normal
6:00 p.m. opens cuz they only have an
hour to price those in. Now, I've got
one more week worth of examples. Let's
just look at that pretty quick. Here we
have an open.
No continuation shorts because of a
very, very large wick and a gap to the
upside. I would just enter continuation
longs as soon as we close above this
candle and trade to fill the gap. After
that, take shorts. There's structure
here, but it's kind of invalidated, and
then a new structure is formed here,
which we break through
>> [laughter]
>> which we break through this candle down
here.
Entering at the very bottom of the
candle isn't the worst, but it's not the
best. If you're somehow able to enter
somewhere through the candle, if you
have other confluences, then that would
be great.
Just in general, trading back to the
6:00 p.m. open price is great. And then
Asian session opens right here.
Continuation, it does go up long, so I
wouldn't consider taking a continuation
most likely. The high time frame bias
would be longs to fill this move down
here, but I would think the 6:00 p.m.
open is pretty fair, so I wouldn't want
to take continuations of the Asian
session going long.
For the reversion, I would just wait and
look for the first break of structure.
We get structure here, and it's broken
here.
So, I would take this position back to
the pre-Asian price.
All right, now we're on Wednesday. We
have the market opening 6:00 p.m. right
here.
Some sort of continuation possibly to
fill the gap. It's not the best entry
since there's a very large wick on top,
and then this one pretty much already
fills the gap in
one candle, so not the best entry. You
would have to have a very weird risk to
reward if you want to approach this
trade. You could also wait till it comes
all the way down here below 6:00 p.m.
Still hasn't filled this bit of the gap,
and then just enter long off break of
structure. A very late continuation, but
it works.
Market pretty much does nothing until it
finally decides to fill the gap. So, if
you were holding long, then uh
for the Asian open
at 8:00 p.m., you'd have had this very
large green candle, so um this is a very
good opportunity to take continuation
longs with the Asian open if you did not
catch the first one. Asian open price is
about here, pretty close to the 6:00
p.m. price, just proving that that is
fair.
This move down would be unfair if you
want to trade back to these two prices
or the gap fill, that would be a very
good trade to take as well. You're
getting [clears throat] a discount on
the longs because you're below the fair
price if the fair price is between these
two opens.
This move up fills the gap and then we
can start looking for shorts back to the
Asian price.
Just enter off the first break of
structure you see and there you go.
This is a bit of a weird session with
very large wicks pretty much everywhere,
but
it is good to see that gap was filled
and then it came back to the Asian
price. All right, Tuesday we have the
market opening right here.
I wouldn't take continuation longs. I
would want it to come back to the pre
gap price as well just for a high time
frame reversion.
And then Trump does tweet here which
messes with the fair price. Asian does
open right here. So if you're looking to
take a reversion back to the 6:00 p.m.
price, then your entry would be pretty
much right here off the break of this
structure and it's a breakout of this
zone of consolidation.
And you're getting 80 points back to the
6:00 p.m. price which is always great.
So this is probably the only trade
for that strategy. I have another news
rich strategy where I would be taking
longs down here
back up to the consolidation after the
Trump tweet.
All right, two days left. Monday we have
the market opening here. Continuation
longs aren't the best since there's two
extremely large wicks on top and the gap
fill is down here. So I'd be looking for
shorts as soon as it starts
consolidating and breaks down
just to fill the gap. After that, Asian
session opens right here.
Seems to be a pretty fair price in this
area. This move up would be unfair, but
not too but not too far. You're able to
get 15 or 28 points in your favor
trading back to this area here which is
great. Continuation for Asian.
If you wanted to take take that, it
would have to be a long position because
Asian opened and went up. One last day
we have Sunday.
There is a gap below. The chart is just
not showing it for some reason.
If you were to take continuations, you
would want to take shorts off the break
of this structure just because the gap
was below.
After that, we would want it to come
back to the 6:00 p.m. open price.
Enter off a break of structure would be
right here.
This one does lose and then there's a
lot of consolidation and then the Asian
session opens right
here. So, after the Asian session opens,
I would trade back to the 6:00 p.m.
price again
as a continuation of the Asian. So,
that's how I trade the 6:00 p.m. and the
8:00 p.m. session. Asian open is 8:00
p.m. So, I do a continuation and
reversion for 6:00 p.m. and then do a
continuation and reversion for the Asian
session. So, it allows me to get in four
extra trades. Remember, Asian trades in
the direction of the 6:00 p.m. open most
of the time. 6:00 p.m. trades in the
direction of the gap and then back to
the 6:00 p.m. price. So, the 6:00 p.m.
price is a very good indicator of the
fair price for the evening. Now, before
you replicate this strategy, just try
back testing and using these as targets
and seeing if you're able to create a
strategy that effectively is generating
expected value trading in the direction
of the 6:00 p.m. open price because
that is what I believe to be the fair
price for futures.